so much I want to chat about even
frankly I want to learn in a few minutes
down the road why you even have the
enthusiasm to start another company
right I could be I feel like I'm high
energy and I could barely keep doing
what I'm doing yeah so uh I want to get
there but in order but before like let's
talk about let's talk because we've both
been doing this for a long time
AI yeah
um first of all from a craft perspective
so I mean craps perhaps a big fun now
what's your assets under management a
billion and a half dollars we're at uh
3.3 billion yeah that was fast yeah is
that a record over three billion I don't
know I don't know if it's a record but
yeah it is pretty now I mean half of
that is in new funds that we haven't
deployed yet so okay that's actually
that's a topic we come back to but okay
so 3.3 billion when you guys are talking
each week
and and it's craft is still very sad B2B
focused right the majority B2B how much
of this combo is about AI is it all AI
does it have to be AI first it's about
80 80 yeah okay and if I wanted for new
stuff what's that for new stuff
obviously we have a large portfolio of
Founders that we need to keep servicing
and yeah most of that is not AI it was
pre-ai right but in terms of looking for
new ideas I think the team is spending
70 to 80 of their time looking at Ai and
if I had like the world's best payroll
app could I get a meeting to craft yeah
absolutely I'm not being facetious
it's the the issue is that one of the
questions all VCS ask is why now yeah so
um you know there is a tendency if you
think about every major platform shift
as like kind of a pond and the pond is
kind of stocked with opportunities it
will get fished out over time yeah you
know the best opportunities over time
will get taken there's always this
question of why is this idea still
available to the founder to be exploited
and you know it's been before AI came on
the scene it was what roughly a dozen
years since the last really big platform
shift we had a couple we had
um Cloud obviously has been huge and
then mobile there was also social
although that mattered a little bit less
in B2B
so there there was a sense that SAS was
getting a little bit long in the tooth
as a wave kind of multi-tenant SASS and
we needed something new to come along to
kind of reset you know kind of restock
the pond with opportunities yeah and I
think that's AI at least that's the way
most VCS what are you guys and what what
has made your jaw drop or what gets the
team excited for for reels right
well we have seen a bunch of like cool
Demos in AI that you know have been
pretty impressive although a lot of them
are more prototyping
um I would say that we've kind of
divided the AI opportunities into three
buckets there's infrastructure
um which is super hot and you're seeing
rounds massive rounds get done at super
high valuations ultimately my view is
that infrastructures can be owned by the
big tech companies and those mainly are
plays for a good M A exit yeah um second
bucket is co-pilots and I think this is
the area where actually startups new
Founders can start new things that the
big companies really aren't going to go
after I think there's going to be a
co-pilot for every professional job
category you know you've already seen a
bunch for lawyers you know doctors yeah
I mean I think there will be again
co-pilots for everything and then
there'll be co-pilots for horizontal job
functions Marketing sales so forth uh
third category is pre-ai SAS apps that
get turbocharged in their value by
adding AI functionality doesn't mean
they're going to be like the Deep you
know the sort of a foundation model it's
more like they get to exploit all these
new AI apis to make their product better
we've seen like the killer notion uh AI
demo where it auto completes everything
our portfolio company clicked up just
released some similar functionality I
think that you know apps like gong or
course are going to be turbocharged with
the ability to analyze all that
conversational intelligence that they're
recording so I do think there'll be a
lot of again pre-ai SAS apps that just
get a lot better because of this
functionality yeah no I'm with you but
it's interesting
I think what you said maybe to help
Founders is is really the moment in time
craps got over three billion under
management you're spending seven to
eighty percent of your time on on New
Deals on AI
um but a lot of the stuff is is just
past demoware right so it's an
interesting mismatch where unicorns have
been reborn here yeah but uh we are
we're we're getting very excited early
oh we're planning on deploying our
current funds very slowly slowly um so
just because it's what we're spending
against 70 to 80 of our yes of our sort
of search time yeah but again we spend a
huge amount of time just helping our
current portfolio but you know in terms
of the search for new ideas just because
it's 78 of our time doesn't mean that
we're instantly going to be like pilate
it's going to take a while for this
stuff to play out you know we've only
made I'd say a couple of you know well
we've made a few seed Investments C
checks are a lot easier to write right
now I think we've only written one or
two you could call them like series a
type checks one or two this year yeah
yeah so that and
what how let's take 2021 out of the
equation
um how does that compare to your average
pace one or two
I think that things right now they're
going back to more the the pre the 2020
and 2021 were simply a bubble
yeah it was a massive bubble especially
the second half of 2021 valuations were
crazy rounds were crazy it was worse
because actually the metrics were
already cratering in 2021
but we kept investing until until New
Year's Eve I didn't to be honest I
didn't there were a lot of companies
that we saw that actually had very good
metrics in 2021 I I didn't see the
metrics start cratering until mid 2022.
but I think the macro like if you go the
Mac Shopify in Zoom yeah they had
already reverted to normal yeah right
there's this bubble was we weren't we
were ignoring the fact that we'd return
to the normal World quicker than we
thought yeah so so you're right so the
co the businesses that got accelerated
by covid were already reverting to the
mean I think that in terms of the
financial markets um everything peaked
in November of 2021 that's when the feds
started turning really really hawkish
and indicated that they would be raising
rates but the rate hikes didn't start
until about March and so q1 was still
this like last gasp of people able to
get rounds done maybe not quite as good
as in Q4 I was nervous but it happened
but it was still happening I would say
like by Q2 yeah of 20 20 22 it was
nothing but like a falling knife and
then when I started seeing it but but my
portfolio companies I think were still
hitting their their forecast by and
large it wasn't until the second half of
2022 that every board meeting I was at
was like a exercise and reforcasting
down
and that was the part that was a little
bit surprising to me is how much the
fed's you know crazy loose money zerk
policy where it was inflating the
metrics of like every company all the
way down to kind of early stage software
companies yeah well let's come back to
that but so just for just to be
Technical and Venture because I think
it's it's still an opaque world for
Founders yeah so it is interesting even
if it's sometimes born to you and me two
deals a year right uh so I mean I think
I think you know the last year was a
really slow period I think
um I would say that our expectation
moving forward is that we will do call
it one and a half I'd say one and a half
which means uh deals per quarter okay so
one and a half Big A's yeah it's like
less like leading a series a or series B
to call it three every six months yeah
you know or six a year so I guess that's
one every two months and then you know
seeds a little different I think we can
do
um you know like a couple of seeds a
quarter maybe even two to three seeds a
quarter yeah and that's you know just
thinking about it for a moment for for
Founders here even for you and me
the map Venture map's crazy to think
about having three billion under
management and doing six you might
intuitively as a Founder think it's got
to be 60 or like yeah and it also means
the odds as as simple as fundraising
seemed in 2021 actually mathematically
the odds are tough aren't they yeah do
you guys know where do you do you know
how you model the attrition from seed
day have you guys modeled that
um yeah I mean we're still trying to
figure that out I guess in terms of like
giving you a precise numerical answer
but I can tell you
that it's based on like a feel thing
it's really changed I would say that two
years ago
uh I would say like every seed round
looked good because the graduation rates
a series a was so high and so you know
if you're paying like 15 20 even a size
like a 30 cap on a seed round and it was
graduating to a series a round at a 60
to 100 million dollar valuation which
was very common in 2021. yeah if you
felt like you were getting a discount by
investing in almost every seat ground
that you did and there are a lot of seed
rounds basically based on this thesis
which is we're just gonna ARB the you
know the fact that there was a lot of
ARP going on yeah like we know this
company will get a series a round so
it's going to invest in the seed round
well I would say that the mortality rate
on seed right now is very high you know
I think it's probably going to be like
80 percent that's my gut about 80 right
yeah I was we did uh I did 20 VC
the other day and Frank rotman from QED
Zone who's been doing fintech a long
time he said their traditional model was
80 graduation and kudos to someone
that's very metrics but that's as a
Founder if you're planning on that today
you're crazy right yeah I I think I
think in one year I think it's I think
the expectation should go from about you
know 20 attrition to 80 attrition yeah
so seed is no longer a bargain it's
actually like pretty tough
for investors seeds seeds yes that's
what I mean yes because we're inherently
overpaying
well you might be overpaying um there
there is a lot there's a lot of seed
funds and so I'm no longer convinced
that seed is particularly like a bargain
in terms of that part of the market
um in fact I I think probably series a
or series B is a better place to invest
I think you know the question is always
the trade-off between uh proof and you
know how much proof do you want as an
investor versus the extra evaluation
that you have to pay up for that and my
and I think that you know a couple of
years ago uh you'd have to pay up a ton
for that incremental proof because it
just you know it felt like the
valuations would just you know hockey
stick as soon as anything seems to be
working yeah and now I think investors
are more skeptical and I think you don't
have to pay as much to get a little bit
more proof and so I think it's okay to
wait basically disincrementally yeah if
you can't I mean that's the Paradox for
all of it for Founders that you would
wait if you could right right
um you know when I started the lesson I
was taught is from seed to a
you it need the valuation needs to at
least double but ideally triple not not
to be fancy or to look good on paper but
to justify the risk because if you have
enough money and craft has enough money
you might as well wait like I'll pay 2x
the price right for uh for for a tenth
the risk that's the biggest bargain in
the world that's right yes I think
that's right so if it's if if it is an
80 mortality rate from C to series a
yeah series A's need to be what is that
five times
and I think there has been a correction
so the correction evaluation started
with the the super late stage stuff
because what happened is the the
crossover investors who had come into
the market like the Tigers and so on
they just got their faces ripped off so
they basically just got out of the
market and so the super late stage
rounds is where liquidity is dried up
and then it started trickling down and
so you know first series C was hard and
then series B got hard I mean everyone
who's kind of around earlier can look
forward and see oh wait a second there's
no end of market my deal anymore I
better be like really conservative yeah
and it trickles all the way down but
seed obviously is the last round for it
to trickle down to and I'm not sure it's
like fully corrected yeah I don't I
think folks here may affiliate I
actually think
here in in like the virtual Bay area
where you have multiple successful
founders with lots of money I don't
think it's corrected at all for the for
the halves right for the for the ones
with the right resumes that that came
out of stripe or came out of Yammer came
out of wherever they they there's no
impact right there's still a surplus of
folks who in many cases are gentle
people investors and they don't care
right
um all right two things I want to hit on
the slide maybe we lost it up front if
we could bring it back there's a lot but
these are things I know you've thought
about so we talked to the beginning
eighty percent of crafts think about AI
other things that got exciting and maybe
are less today let's talk about the
second one first low margin SAS right
and and you've done plenty of stuff in
fintech and combination over your career
I still get confused when I meet with
the founder with a 30 or 40 merge in
business yeah how how are you thinking
about this today it seemed like a
perfect thing in 2021 to bolt on a low
margin payments business to anything
didn't it yeah I mean I would say to me
when I hear the term low margin SAS that
sounds like an oxymoron like it is an
oxymoron software is supposed to be high
margin the Insight that made Bill Gates
the richest man in the world is he
realized he could Mass produce software
so at a low cost right because I don't
know how we got away from that right
because they put a floppy disk or a
CD-ROM you print it you distribute it to
10 million people and it's cash right
it's specific it's an IP business
meaning that all the expense in creating
the software goes into producing the
first instance or the first copy of the
software yeah taking additional copies
of it is on the margins free and so the
more of it you can sell the more
lucrative it is that I mean that's the
definition of gross margin it's almost
like a perfect gross margin business
there's no incremental cogs to producing
more copies so as soon as you get away
from that model you're getting away from
what is unique and special about
software and I think I'd say the
payments business says maybe or fintech
would be one aspect I think the other
one was just all these like Tech enabled
businesses yeah that had like that was
software but it had a major physical
world component and those businesses
just got clobbered in the last few years
and we've just kind of realized we
didn't do a ton of it but I've come to
realize that
uh software businesses that have a
physical world component it's very very
difficult
um you know you need you need a Founder
who is a true like 10x operator to make
those businesses work
um three times more complicated minimum
right many times more complicated you
really have to pay attention to your
gross margins and you know most Founders
don't have the experience to really do
that the nice thing about creating a
software startup is it's very forgiving
in terms of if you're not operationally
efficient it's a it's certainly more
forgiving look it's not a good place to
be if you're not operationally efficient
but you know if you're good at product
and you're good at sales you don't have
to be the world's greatest operator to
make a software business work it's
mostly about basically finding product
Market fed and selling you know and but
and all you have to look at is the Top
Line the bottom line yeah even ignore
everything in the middle right exactly
but if you're like delivering food
you know like you better be a
world-class operator or you will not
make the margins of that business work
what about like a toast would you invest
in toast today
um
because it's like a super it's like a
very low margin I mean toast is 12
billion plus yeah but it has Hardware
that it loses money on yeah then it has
services that it loses even more money
on then it sells to smbs hardware and
services but it it's it's profitable now
at billions of of Top Line right in the
building of Revenue yeah I mean but it
won it's won it's category right I would
say at the series a stage I might miss
that can I miss it yeah too too many
weird things going on uh yeah I mean
just like it looks really hard it wasn't
really yeah they were sort of
quasi-incubated at Bessemer and I
remember Byron told the story of that
they told them whatever you do don't go
into the hardware business like don't do
point of sale and they said you're
absolutely right but the 10x to make it
work we have to own the whole stack
right yeah but um yeah I mean there's
always exceptions that that prove the
rule but um but it's just hard when you
know the thing I look at is is there a
cogs line in the p l you know like and
what is in there yeah because pure
software businesses shouldn't really
have one
um but sometimes they do and sometimes
they're misattributed and then you find
out oh wait a second this business
actually does have cogs but you know the
finance team buried it and you know in
like an overhead line and then you find
out well wait a second this business is
actually negative gross margin yeah I
think one of the worst things you can
ever discover is that your late stage
business which is growing really fast is
actually negative gross margin because
what that means is you've been selling
dollars for 90 cents and so now you have
to question if you you have to reprice
everything meaning you have to you now
have to change your pricing of the
product to get out of negative gross
margins and when you do that you might
lose your product Market fit so it's
like you really got to make sure from
the beginning that you're properly
instrumented on on things like gross
margin yeah you had an Insight when we
caught up the other day just for folks
here that I thought was simple and but
pretty profound if if you're not an 80
gross Market business if you have other
stuff right your margins are probably
much worse than you think yeah I just
went through this with the startup I
invested in every I mean the best team
best everything but they have a blended
business and I was like you know your
margins can't really be 70 and they came
back well they're they're 55 now right
and this is what I mean by like there's
if in pure SAS businesses there's a lot
of forgiveness for not being
operationally like the best very sloppy
yeah exactly but as soon as you're in a
world of kind of again these physical
world components or these like cogs
if if you do something like misattribute
a true Cog to to overhead to your GNA
for example yeah like that could be
fatal because what will happen is you'll
you'll think everything's great your
your series C and then a really
sophisticated late stage investor is
going to point out wait a second that
that expense belongs in you know in your
cogs and all of a sudden your gross
margin turns negative or it goes from 55
to 10 yeah then you're not you're not
and all of a sudden like wait a second
you don't even have the business that
you thought you had yeah
um
let me get this next one
high level one word this is um
um
this is a term uh that we'll come back
to later that Hadley bounced off the
bottom what are you thinking in general
yourself or a craft where are we versus
a quarter or so ago yeah I think we
bottomed out it probably bottom now we
bottomed out in the last few months from
certainly from uh public markets
valuation perspective we certainly have
the nasdaq's up like 30 this year yeah
um that was the good investment leave
your money in QQQ and call it it for now
you know a lot of that is based on the
market believing that inflation has been
licked it's in the rear view mirror and
we're going to get rate Cuts next year
so the Market's starting to price in you
know a lower discount rate on all these
growth stocks if inflation rebounds then
watch out because the market will sell
off but from a public market standpoint
we have there has been a recovery and
that tends to trickle down to private
valuations as well so we've certainly
bottomed out on the Capital Market side
I think that for
um Founders I've started having you know
board meetings in the last few weeks
where there's like green shoots like
some companies are starting to
accelerate and it feels like things have
kind of bottomed out I don't think
people are most folks that have good
businesses are saying things are getting
worse are they out there most yeah I
know no one's saying it's getting worse
anymore
um but there's a lot of a lot of
companies where there's still a lot of
deferred pain yeah you know where they
raise huge rounds in 2021 especially and
they've been burning too much money and
yeah things may have um bottom but it
doesn't mean that they're right and
they're still I think you're still going
to see over the next year or two a lot
of companies
you know run out of money and die or
have to take down rounds or you know
restructure so there's definitely some
deferred pain in the ecosystem that's
tossed to play out yeah but let me come
back just to show folks here look I just
picked two I picked two that are kind of
Representative but we're going through
one on the left of Zoom info which is
kind of like the public leader and pure
play sales and marketing you can see
they hit they hit bottom On Cue they
actually it was just like David said
actually things held up pretty good last
year right
um and then they hit bottom in q1 and
then bounce back right and then Zoom is
obviously the craziest covid it turned
out it looked like the greatest
beneficiary it was the greatest
non-beneficiary of covid right and they
finally kind of returned to limited but
real growth and new bookings so uh those
to me like if you look at the most
impacted if they're bouncing off the
bottom maybe it's a dead cat bounce
right but uh the companies that were
doing you know that were accelerated by
covid like food delivery and e-commerce
and uh Zoom you know they they're in
like kind of a little bit of a different
bucket I think than just like the the
software bucket
um and so that those are the ones I'm
talking about yeah one more quick about
on this just because uh just your
thoughts I get EX I get burnt out
everyone's saying how horrible it is on
the Twitter and the internet X
um and um because not everything's a
downturn right like the overall consumer
economy is pretty good and if you look
at I picked toast notwithstanding our
margin question and I took it Monday
we're having to Ron the CEO of Monday
come in a couple hours interviewing like
Monday sales to normal companies Okay
and like you know and there was no
impact at Monday I mean minimal impact
right and so it's we have this how do
you think about there's like this
microcosm of SAS startups that sold to
be the bsas startup selling a fungible
sales and marketing product that it felt
like the world ended right and then
there's Real World Companies where
impacts were so is this right is this a
downturn or what did we go where we
actually just go through well I think
you're you're picking two of the the
best least affected companies yeah I
could pick or Snowflake and a few
others but yeah but point taken yeah I
you know what I can tell you is that my
my sort of view based on the The Casual
empiricism of sitting in a lot of board
meetings is that things like sucked for
the past year you know and uh a lot you
know because I think a lot of startups
do sell not just to other startups but
to other big tech companies or the early
adopter type buyers and a lot of these
companies were going through layoffs and
so they were reducing the amount of
seats they needed to buy yeah so even
even the the startups that were good at
getting renewals were renewing uh you
know they were getting seat contractions
still happening still happening that was
a big change because for the last decade
plus seed expansions has been this huge
wind at our backs and all of a sudden
seen expansion you know 120 percent has
turned to 80 in terms of the expectation
for the renewal so that's been a big
problem the other thing I'm seeing is
that there's a lot of categories that
are merging right now you know like you
look at like sales enablement for
example we thought there were five or
six different categories of you know
sales and ailment they're all now trying
to get into each other's business yeah
and buyers are starting to sharpen their
pencils and say we just need one of
these and I think that's going to happen
in a lot of software categories so the
buyers are getting more discriminating
everyone's looking at cut costs and uh
it I think it's like a pretty tough
period actually I mean I describe it as
a software recession
um I don't you know I don't know why the
rest of the economy has held up as well
as it has
um but from the point of view if you're
if you're in the software business we've
been experiencing recession over the
last year or two what do you the the
um
I I've started to go into kind of an ass
kicking mode related to this which is
look this this happened right so it was
a tough year but aren't we lapping that
doesn't shouldn't everybody do like a
little bit better the next year than
they did the last year do you get an
excuse to not at least do better than
last year if you were if you were
heavily impacted yeah I mean I think
that the last
um I'd say the last five quarters have
just been you know have just been like
every board meeting is reforesting down
um but I think like I said the last few
weeks it feels like things have started
to turn up a little bit so if you're
still forecasting down five quarters
from now then I'd say you're screwed um
like the next year should be better yeah
but you know like the old saying goes
It's a escalator on the way up an
elevator on the way down so we just had
the elevator on the way down now we're
starting to build
um build back up it's not like it's
going to bounce back to just where it
was you know in in late 2021 it's just
not
it'll happen take another 20 years right
it's like um illegal Gurley describes
this kind of assault you know Sawtooth
pattern where things kind of go up with
you know some with you know little
Corrections and all of a sudden there's
a big correction that starts to go back
up so we're kind of like saw two thing
our way back back up but it's you know
this is never going to be like it was
in 2021 I mean that was like the biggest
bubble since the.com bubble in 1999.
it was because the smart people bought
into it that's what always happens
psychology is really helpful the smart
it went on too long that even the cynics
you have you have you have to play the
the game on the field right so you want
to sit out the game for two years when I
mean there were huge cash exits it was
and then there were cash exits in
2019.99 too right I mean the dessert
bubble if you want to look at it that
way have been building for 15 years it's
a long time and so people just kind of
started taking it for granted that
interest rates will always be this low
that Capital would always be this
available that valuations would always
be this great but it wasn't just us I
mean look what's going on in the
commercial real estate sector they are
just getting their faces ripped off
right now uh you're gonna see a lot of
more to come yeah you're gonna see a lot
of Siri bankruptcies a lot next 18
months should we
um and I want to hit a few other I want
to hit this one for fun but related to
this bankruptcy thing
um and I know I know it's very visceral
when you're on board meetings and all
the other stuff but should we really
care if some of these over funded
unicorns fail should we does it really
matter I mean there's so much on social
media and the and the media but if it's
also it doesn't matter does it matter if
20 or 30 percent of the 1100 unicorns go
under is it such a tragedy not to any of
you guys if you're founding companies
who cares you know yeah it really only
matters to the founders and investors
and employees and investors of those I
don't mean to be calloused to the
employees yeah it matters a lot but at a
meta level right the world hasn't ended
no no I mean and you know look I think
that software is not going away I mean
the software is only going to become a
larger and larger part of the economy
there's no way that it becomes a smaller
part of the economy the business
environment is always changing there's
always these new platforms like AI so if
you're a Founder who has a great idea
for starting a company no it doesn't
matter to you I mean start your company
doesn't matter that some overfunded
unicorn like you know is is basically
you know a zombie yeah I mean I don't
mean to be I shouldn't be I didn't mean
to be uh uncaring about employees that
are impacted but at all uh but at a meta
level we take so many cues from VCS
right and yeah it's Terr as a VC it
pretty much sucks if you've got 10
unicorns you got around sure it's not
fun to work a tiger or soft bang today
but for the world I I just don't I think
it's it's overdone yeah look I mean I
found a dmmer in the wake of the um of
the 2008 you know great financial crisis
didn't stop you it didn't stop me from
yeah it was and it turned out I mean it
was by the way it was really hard to
raise money I think we only had like one
term sheet at the series a and series B
is that true yeah even as the CEO of
PayPal yeah one term yeah I mean it was
not it was not easy but we did it uh and
PayPal was mostly created after the.com
crash I mean it was founded before and
thank goodness we raised a bunch of
money before but the company was built
primarily in the wake of the.com from
2000 to 2002. so so I think building a
company during downturns is a great time
because you know the war for talent is
less intense so it's recruiting gets a
lot easier it was getting insanely hard
to recruit anybody in 2021 yeah and and
startups couldn't really compete with
big companies which were you know giving
huge salaries to you know so that gets
easier also uh when you are operating
during either a downturn or just a less
frothy period there's less competitors
who get funded you know like in 2020 or
2021 as soon as you would come up with a
great idea and start a company there'd
be like five copycats who would get
funded so I think it's generally and if
you look at the history of like great
Venture returns it happens from vintages
when you know you're not like obviously
in a bubble so this is a much healthier
place for the ecosystem to be yeah okay
this one
the burn multiple so every investor
update I mean I I think you coined the
term if you didn't coined the term well
consider you the coin of fire of the
bird multiple every investor update I
get this metric I I think and I think of
you every time they burn multiple and
uh I wanna I agree with you on close to
100 of things on SAS but this one I want
to challenge a little bit only because I
think it may have taken on the life of
its own beyond what you intended right
right which is I see Founders that are
maybe burning a little too much thinking
their burn multiple is okay as they're
slowly driving their car off the cliff
right they're slowly driving it right
and so when you think about this today
what is all this I know what you're
trying to we're trying to simplify a lot
of things here how do we think about
burn multiple in 2023 20 20 24. yeah I
think I wrote I wrote this blog post
called the burn multiple I think I wrote
it in
um early 2020.
yeah it's about three and a half years
ago
um actually it was I think it was when
we had there was like a three-month kind
of covet Swoon period in the market
might have been six weeks but we'll call
it three months yeah I mean basically
everyone thought the world was ending to
covid and then the FED just started
airdropping money
um so it was a very short-lived and
that's when the bubble began the the
Super Bubble began
um but any event I I wrote this there
because I I thought that it would become
very important for startups to think
about their Capital efficiency and they
weren't and now the message really
matters so it um but any event
um in terms of
in terms of um well sorry what's the
question again well how do we just now I
feel like today so so that that window
was nearly where efficiency was
incredibly important right yeah then we
went through an area where it was only
important as a game until the next round
right now we're in an interesting world
where actually for the first time all
the public SAS companies are efficient
Monday went from minus 15 to like plus
20 non-gaap operating margin than 15
months just flipped 15 points
sales forces approaching the rule of 50.
it's already I mean the level of
efficiency in the public it's
jaw-dropping they basically just froze
hiring it sort of worked yeah but so
we're in this new area of more
efficiency so what is what's the
guidelines for Founders yeah right okay
so so let me make two points so uh the
first is why kind of come up with this
new metric of burn multiple as opposed
to using things like CAC or CAC payback
things like that yeah I think that's
important is that what I was seeing in
metrics like hack is that if the finance
team simply misattributed a certain
expense then like it would make the CAC
payback look great everyone's got a
great CAC yeah exactly every start I was
just way too easy and I'm not saying
they did it on purpose but you know you
just ask the founders was your entire
marketing team including the
communications team in CAC yeah and
they're like no I thought it was just
sales people so there was there's just
too high a chance that CAC was or magic
number is even the worst version of this
like no one knows how to calculate it
was constantly miscalculated so the
beauty of burn multiple is you just take
your entire burn in a given quarter or a
year and you divide by the net new ARR
and so there's like nowhere for people
to hide it's like it just captures
everything and it's a measure of
efficiency now
the second point is that I you know I
created these like rules of thumb to
make it really easy for Founders just to
quickly diagnose with it this is a good
thing about the metric right is like in
like 30 seconds you could figure out if
you're good or bad you know every board
meeting but it is true that the
standards for what is a good burn
multiple change over time so and I say
this in the blog but I don't I don't
like quantify it if you're a very early
stage startup like let's say pre-series
a your bird multiple has to be bad
because you're doing all this r d and
you're just starting sales so your burn
compared to your net new ARR it's going
to be a really high ratio and that's
funded what's that if you're funded if
you're funded that that's okay but what
should happen over time is that
your your uh your burn multiple which is
just your burn divided by your net new
ARR it should be going down
and obviously by the time that's the
point that folks Miss if that's the
point it should be going down and so
like if you're a late Stage Company or
like a growth stage company like your
burn multiple should probably be one or
even less meaning let's say you add 20
million of ARR net new er in a year you
should probably be burning more than 20
million dollars like you know and then
by the time you get to be public
obviously you ideally you'd be
profitable or cash flow positive in
which case your burn is zero and
hopefully your net new error is a big
number so zero over you know a big
number it's it's zero so your burn
multiple should be trending down towards
zero over time it can start at the seed
round at a high place by series a you
know it's okay to probably be at two ish
you know growth round one-ish public
company zero yeah right it's a good
where this this idea of how it Trends
maybe was in the post but it's not in
every investor update I get I think
where I see it get corrupted if you're
lucky enough to have raised funding
right is
as you cross 10 million somewhere around
that a million a month
um your burn can grow out of control
right it can grow out of control the day
after demo day oh I see but there's this
moment in time it's starting to click
right you're hitting 10 million you're
growing 100 120 you know if you're going
triple digits at 10 million you've got
something good right and if you look at
your birth multiple and I'm like well
it's 2.4 David said it was suspect but
I'm not in bad but 2.4 when you're
adding a million of new bookings that
means you're burning 2.5 you're burning
over two million a month right and so it
can that that actually sneak up on you
go from 600 to 800 to a million and
that's where I see it just when it gets
good your burn multiple can get bad
right if you're not that that's that's
that's where I think people
misunderstand it right yeah well also
um if you if you so so what happens is
that when a startup creates its forecast
for the next year or the next quarter or
whatever if they want to scale up or hit
a greater level of ARR they typically
have to invest they hire a bunch of
sales people they train them there's
ramp time so you know what your costs
are going to be but you're prediction by
your net new AR is basically a
prediction and if you miss your burn
multiple can go from like a forecast of
two to like five just shocks Founders
all the time doesn't it but that's a
good reason to be look at the metric is
to like it does jolt them when they say
wait a second our multiple's horrible
this quarter what I said what I said I
gave a couple of
um I gave a few talks that are on to our
portfolio companies that we later put on
YouTube as we were going into this
software session uh in 2022 and what I
said is do not let your burn multiple go
above two because we're going into a
tough period it's more likely that
you're going to miss than exceed and if
you miss your burn multiple is going to
happen in your planning yeah so two is
the absolute Max that your burn muscle
should be going into this like tough
period and
um so you know anything above two you're
in the danger zone already okay that's a
good summary all right one thing I want
to make sure we hit let's skip that for
a minute yeah a little bit a plug but
yeah you are you've had some success
um founded Yammer founded a few other
movie producer 3.5 billion under
management PayPal others so you're gonna
start another company we did we did uh
so we're launching this today we
announced it today I just tweeted it out
it's um this was previously a free tool
that we gave out to our portfolio
companies first and then we kind of
published it and the ways it's SAS grid
and it's it's a dashboarding tool that's
built specifically for SAS startups and
the way it works is you just connect
your data sources like you know
Salesforce or HubSpot or QuickBooks or
you could upload you know spreadsheets
and you just connect those data sources
and then we basically give you all the
charts and dashboards you need and
should be looking at if you're a SAS
company there's something like 70
metrics that we just Auto calculate for
you and then there's a setup process
where you know we we've identified like
hundreds of edge cases where the data
doesn't properly Translate from house
fighter Salesforce or QuickBooks or
whatever and so we you know it's
implementation takes about 30 minutes
and then so we'll help you get it set up
and then you can customize the
dashboards it this will save I think SAS
starts a ton of time there are other
dashboarding or business intelligence
tools out there but none of them are
custom built for SAS companies so what
happens is you have to hire like a data
a data analytics team and then they're
going to like take all of these data
sources and put them in a data warehouse
or have to clean them up then they're
gonna have to write a bunch of formulas
in SQL for all the SAS metrics that you
think you need you're going to forget
about half of them you know and then
finally you'll get your dashboard in
like looker or Tableau this just like
replaces all of that it's a 30 minute
process connect your data sources boom
you've got everything you need and you
can customize it from there so I think
you know the idea here is that by
verticalizing a business intelligence
tool for a particular industry we can
just give you a level of convenience and
value that just wasn't possible with
like a broad-based generic business
intelligence tool so that's what
sasquerade is the you know the history
of it is
this just started as a spreadsheet that
we would give to companies that were
applying for you know basically they
wanted to raise money from Craft so we
just give him a spreadsheet saying fill
this in because they weren't giving us
their metrics in the right format got it
so we're like here's the right format so
we give them the spreadsheet the
spreadsheet would spit out the charts so
they could kind of see what they're
giving us and they're like whoa this is
really good like I wish we had this
instead of just doing it ourselves so
then we basically put it out there as
like a free website that they could use
and then the the aha moment was we
started seeing SAS companies using it as
their dashboarding tool meaning not just
when like they ran a financing process
but we had 500 companies that were just
using it as our dashboarding tool and
we're like okay they played applied
where you could apply to craft to get
fund to get reviewed right they would
use the output as their screening as
their reporting tools yes but not just
but what again the AHA was they were
using it not just when they need to
raise money no every month but every
month or forever for their board
meetings and we're like okay like the
world actually needs a dedicated SAS
dashboarding tool and the more we
started thinking about that the more
excited we got and look I'm I'm like a
co-founder but the CEO the real CEO
founder is Ethan Ruby yeah who is our uh
partner for analytics at craft and he's
been in the weeds of like taking all the
data from startups and realizing where
all the edge cases are and where all the
formula errors are and like where the
data always gets screwed up and he's
been cleaning it up and so he's
productized the work that he's been
doing with hundreds of companies and he
and his brother actually are like the
main Founders and now they're spinning
this off into it's completely separate
company and
um I think we can make this a standard
for SAS companies you know so I can go
today sasgrid.com
later I can do this I can hook it up I
can hook up my CRM my Quickbooks and I
can start getting the same analytics to
500 totally and the deal right yeah and
uh and it's free for any SAS company uh
if you're under a million dollars of ARR
it's totally free to use we don't charge
you till you hit a million of ARR so I
think you'll find that if you use this
gonna simplify your lives a lot cool all
right I'd love to go for another 45
minutes but let's thank David this was
really great
that's right